---
layout: post
title: About the Project
author: dk
date: 2019-03-19
---
[Beyond Baroque](http://www.beyondbaroque.org/) is an independent Literary Arts Center in Venice, California. Since its founding in 1968 by George Drury Smith, it has become a cornerstone of the literary community in Los Angeles. Community focused events like readings and performances double as experimental space for writers and artists, as well as hubs for education for the wider public community. Beyond Baroque is also well-renowned for its weekly, community workshops that have been attended and led by some of Los Angeles’ leading literary talents. The Beyond Baroque archive is housed on premises, retained within record cartons within shelved closets. With the aid of Library and Information Studies students and other area graduate students from University of California, Los Angeles, Johanna Drucker took to the task of organizing and performing minor descriptive work on Beyond Baroque’s archival collections. In developing a working filing system for the purposes of keeping track of the many cartons on-site, the records were split between institutional records (IR) and publication records (PR). I was brought on to assist this process in the fall of 2018, doing file level description of select cartons of administrative materials and digitization for non-unique materials such as calendars and event flyers.

This project looks at the Beyond Baroque archival collection as one potential site of inquiry into the literary networks built through the foundation and its activities. In using textual documents as data, I find it fitting to explore the many connections crafted through language at Beyond Baroque through the decades.

### Special Thanks

Special thanks to Miriam Posner, Johanna Drucker, Dave Shephard, Quentin Ring, Emmitt Conklin, and the DH 201 class.

### References:

• Drucker, Johanna. n.d. “Fifty Years of Beyond Baroque: 1968–2018.” Los Angeles Review of Books. https://lareviewofbooks.org/article/fifty-years-beyond-baroque-1968-2018/.

• Joseph-Lester, Jaspar, and Norman M. Klein. 2018. “Venice, Venice.” Text. May 1, 2018. https://doi.org/info:doi/10.1386/jwcp.10.2.227_1.

• Maynard, John Arthur. 1991. Venice West: The Beat Generation in Southern California. New Brunswick: Rutgers University Press.

• Meathrell, Carrie. n.d. “Save Beyond Baroque!” LAist. Accessed March 19, 2019. https://laist.com/2008/02/19/save_beyond_bar.php.

• Mohr, Bill. 2011. Hold-Outs: The Los Angeles Poetry Renaissance, 1948-1992. Iowa City: University of Iowa Press.

• “Poetic Computation. Ch 1: What Is Poetic Computation?” n.d. Accessed March 19, 2019. http://poeticcomputation.info/chapters/ch.1.

• Rachmuhl, Sophie, Mindy Menjou, and George Drury Smith. 2015. A Higher Form of Politics: The Rise of a Poetry Scene, Los Angeles, 1950-1990.

• Swafford, Joanna. "Messy Data and Faulty Tools." Debates in the Digital Humanities. http://dhdebates.gc.cuny.edu/debates/text/100.
